README.md, before:

# Alias Quokka Plugin

<!-- [![travis][travis.icon]][travis.url] -->
[![package][version.icon] ![downloads][downloads.icon]][package.url]
[![styled with prettier][prettier.icon]][prettier.url]

## Abstract

Alias Quokka Plugin is a [Quokka][] plugin for providing module import aliases.

Including the plugin and configuration in your JavaScript projects provides a way to define module aliases relative to the project root, and have Quokka find and run files that use those aliases.


## Setup

There are two ways to [configure][quokka-settings] the plugin via the `alias` key:

- manually declare path aliases
- import aliases from other configuration files


#### Manually declare aliases

To manually declare the aliases, use the `aliases` sub-key:

```json
{
  "plugins": ["alias-quokka-plugin"],
  "alias": {
    "aliases": {
      "@": "src/",
      "@/classes/": "src/classes/",
      "foo": "lib/other/foo"
    }
  }
}
```


#### Import aliases from other files

To import aliases from other configuration files, for example [WebPack][webpack-alias] or [TypeScript][typescript-alias], use the `import` sub-key:

```json
{
  "plugins": ["alias-quokka-plugin"],
  "alias": {
    "import": {
      "file": "build/webpack-base.config.js",
      "node": "resolve.alias"
    }
  }
}
```

The `file` child-node should be a relative path to a JavaScript or JSON file, and the `node` child node should be a dot-path to the node containing path aliases.

Having the plugin use existing config makes imports more reliable, and also the config file transferable between projects.

#### TypeScript support

Note that the plugin supports TypeScript's `tsconfig.json`'s alias declaration format:

- wildcards are stripped for alias keys and values
- arrays of paths are searched in order

To support TypeScript, declare paths, then use the following Quokka plugin config:

```json
{
  "import": {
    "file": "tsconfig.json",
    "node": "compilerOptions.paths"
  }
}
```

## Usage

In your script files, use aliased paths as declared in your config file:

```js
// ES5
const SomeClass = require('@/classes/SomeClass')

// ES6 + TypeScript
import SomeClass from '@/classes/SomeClass'
```

#### Demo

A demo project showcasing ES5, ES6, TypeScript, manually-declared and imported aliases is available at:

- https://github.com/davestewart/alias-quokka-plugin-demo


#### Debugging

If you're unsure what aliases the plugin has loaded and / or parsed, add the following key to the plugin config:

```json
{
  "debug": true
}
```

The plugin will output the aliases it is using:

```
Quokka #1 (node: v8.11.1, TypeScript: v3.1.1, plugins: alias-quokka-plugin)

[alias-quokka-plugin] : aliases = {
    "@/classes/": [
        "./src/classes/"
    ],
    "@/": [
        "./src/"
    ]
}
```

## Install

You can install the plugin as a dev dependency for your package:

#### Yarn

    yarn add --save --dev alias-quokka-plugin


#### NPM

    npm install --save-dev alias-quokka-plugin

Or install it into [global quokka directory][] as regular dependency.




[travis.icon]: https://travis-ci.org/Gozala/alias-quokka-plugin.svg?branch=master
[travis.url]: https://travis-ci.org/Gozala/alias-quokka-plugin

[version.icon]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[downloads.icon]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[package.url]: https://npmjs.org/package/alias-quokka-plugin


[downloads.image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[downloads.url]: https://npmjs.org/package/alias-quokka-plugin

[prettier.icon]:https://img.shields.io/badge/styled_with-prettier-ff69b4.svg
[prettier.url]:https://github.com/prettier/prettier

[Quokka]:https://quokkajs.com/
[Quokka plugin]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/extensibility.html
[global quokka directory]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/configuration.html#global-config-file
[quokka-settings]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/configuration.html

[webpack-alias]:https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/
[typescript-alias]:https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html#path-mapping

Commit message:

Add Limitations section to readme

README.md, after:

# Alias Quokka Plugin

<!-- [![travis][travis.icon]][travis.url] -->
[![package][version.icon] ![downloads][downloads.icon]][package.url]
[![styled with prettier][prettier.icon]][prettier.url]

## Abstract

Alias Quokka Plugin is a [Quokka][] plugin for providing module import aliases.

Including the plugin and configuration in your JavaScript projects provides a way to define module aliases relative to the project root, and have Quokka find and run files that use those aliases.



## Install

Install the plugin as a dev dependency for your package:

#### Yarn

    yarn add --save --dev alias-quokka-plugin


#### NPM

    npm install --save-dev alias-quokka-plugin

Or install it into [global quokka directory][] as regular dependency.


## Setup

There are two ways to [configure][quokka-settings] the plugin via the `alias` key:

- manually declare path aliases
- import aliases from other configuration files


#### Manually declare aliases

To manually declare the aliases, use the `aliases` sub-key:

```json
{
  "plugins": ["alias-quokka-plugin"],
  "alias": {
    "aliases": {
      "@": "src/",
      "@/classes/": "src/classes/",
      "foo": "lib/other/foo"
    }
  }
}
```


#### Import aliases from other files

To import aliases from other configuration files, for example [WebPack][webpack-alias] or [TypeScript][typescript-alias], use the `import` sub-key:

```json
{
  "plugins": ["alias-quokka-plugin"],
  "alias": {
    "import": {
      "file": "build/webpack-base.config.js",
      "node": "resolve.alias"
    }
  }
}
```

The `file` child-node should be a relative path to a JavaScript or JSON file, and the `node` child node should be a dot-path to the node containing path aliases.

Having the plugin use existing config makes imports more reliable, and also the config file transferable between projects.

#### TypeScript support

Note that the plugin supports TypeScript's `tsconfig.json`'s alias declaration format:

- wildcards are stripped for alias keys and values
- arrays of paths are searched in order

To support TypeScript, declare paths, then use the following Quokka plugin config:

```json
{
  "import": {
    "file": "tsconfig.json",
    "node": "compilerOptions.paths"
  }
}
```

## Usage

In your script files, use aliased paths as declared in your config file:

```js
// ES5
const SomeClass = require('@/classes/SomeClass')

// ES6 + TypeScript
import SomeClass from '@/classes/SomeClass'
```

#### Demo

A demo project showcasing ES5, ES6, TypeScript, manually-declared and imported aliases is available at:

- https://github.com/davestewart/alias-quokka-plugin-demo


#### Debugging

If you're unsure what aliases the plugin has loaded and / or parsed, add the following key to the plugin config:

```json
{
  "debug": true
}
```

The plugin will output the aliases it is using:

```
Quokka #1 (node: v8.11.1, TypeScript: v3.1.1, plugins: alias-quokka-plugin)

[alias-quokka-plugin] : aliases = {
    "@/classes/": [
        "./src/classes/"
    ],
    "@/": [
        "./src/"
    ]
}
```

## Limitations

There are a few cases where the Quokka plugin won't run as expected; we've tried to document them here.

#### PhpStorm

Sometimes, the plugin fails load when running scratch files. We currently don't know why this is. The workaround is to save the file first, or use a different editor, perhaps WebStorm.

- https://github.com/wallabyjs/quokka/issues/262#event-1880708069

#### VS Code

The following quote directly from the Quokka team:

> We're aware that unsaved scratch files don't work in VSCode, this is a limitation of the Quokka plugin for VSCode. This is because the file doesn't have a physical location to refer to your existing project like they do in IntelliJ IDEs.
>
> Sometimes VSCode can get confused when you have multiple folders in the same workspace. In this case, Quokka allows you to select your workspace folder for scratch files using the Quokka.js: Select Workspace Folder feature.

We have had mixed results getting this to work.


[travis.icon]: https://travis-ci.org/Gozala/alias-quokka-plugin.svg?branch=master
[travis.url]: https://travis-ci.org/Gozala/alias-quokka-plugin

[version.icon]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[downloads.icon]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[package.url]: https://npmjs.org/package/alias-quokka-plugin


[downloads.image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/alias-quokka-plugin.svg
[downloads.url]: https://npmjs.org/package/alias-quokka-plugin

[prettier.icon]:https://img.shields.io/badge/styled_with-prettier-ff69b4.svg
[prettier.url]:https://github.com/prettier/prettier

[Quokka]:https://quokkajs.com/
[Quokka plugin]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/extensibility.html
[global quokka directory]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/configuration.html#global-config-file
[quokka-settings]:https://quokkajs.com/docs/configuration.html

[webpack-alias]:https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/
[typescript-alias]:https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/module-resolution.html#path-mapping
